---
title: "SSL Configuration"
description: "Reference documentation for using Sensu with SSL."
version: 0.27
weight: 17
---

# Sensu and SSL

## Reference documentation

- [How does Sensu use SSL?](#how-does-sensu-use-ssl)
  - [SSL-secured transports](#ssl-secured-transports)
- [Configuring Sensu + RabbitMQ for SSL encryption](#configuring-sensu-rabbitmq-for-ssl-encryption)
  - [Generate self-signed OpenSSL certificates & CA](#generate-self-signed-openssl-certificates-and-ca)
  - [Install self-signed SSL certificates](#install-self-signed-ssl-certificates)
  - [Enable RabbitMQ SSL support](#enable-rabbitmq-ssl-support)
  - [Configure Sensu](#configure-sensu)
- [Known limitations](#known-limitations)

## How does Sensu use SSL?

All communication between Sensu services happens via the [Sensu transport][1].
As such, **to secure a Sensu installation means to secure communication between
all of the Sensu services and the Sensu transport via SSL encryption**. Sensu
can operate without the use of SSL encryption, however, this practice is heavily
discouraged.

### SSL-secured Transports

Although the [Sensu transport][1] library makes it possible for Sensu to
leverage transport alternatives to RabbitMQ (e.g. Redis), not all transports
offer SSL support (e.g. Redis does not support SSL). For this reason, this
reference document will focus on SSL security for Sensu with the RabbitMQ
transport.

## Configuring Sensu + RabbitMQ for SSL encryption

### Generate self-signed OpenSSL certificates and CA

The following instructions will generate an OpenSSL certificate authority and
self-signed certificates. Alternatively, please refer to the [official RabbitMQ
SSL documentation][2] for a detailed guide on configuring RabbitMQ with SSL.

1. OpenSSL is required on the machine that will generate the SSL certificates.
   Install OpenSSL on your platform:

   #### Ubuntu/Debian

   ~~~ shell
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install openssl
   openssl version
   ~~~

   #### CentOS/RHEL

   ~~~ shell
   sudo yum install openssl
   openssl version
   ~~~

2. Download the Sensu SSL tool

   ~~~ shell
   wget http://sensuapp.org/docs/0.27/files/sensu_ssl_tool.tar
   tar -xvf sensu_ssl_tool.tar
   ~~~

3. Generate an OpenSSL certificate authority and self-signed certificates using
   the Sensu SSL tool:

   ~~~ shell
   cd sensu_ssl_tool
   ./ssl_certs.sh generate
   ls -l
   ~~~

   _NOTE: the generated certificates will be valid for 5 years._

   The Sensu SSL tool will generate a certificate authority, SSL certificates
   for the RabbitMQ server, and a shared SSL certificate for all of the Sensu
   services.

   ~~~
   ├── client
   │   ├── cert.pem
   │   ├── keycert.p12
   │   ├── key.pem
   │   └── req.pem
   ├── sensu_ca
   │   ├── cacert.cer
   │   ├── cacert.pem
   │   ├── certs
   │   │   ├── 01.pem
   │   │   └── 02.pem
   │   ├── index.txt
   │   ├── index.txt.attr
   │   ├── index.txt.attr.old
   │   ├── index.txt.old
   │   ├── openssl.cnf
   │   ├── private
   │   │   └── cakey.pem
   │   ├── serial
   │   └── serial.old
   ├── server
   │   ├── cert.pem
   │   ├── keycert.p12
   │   ├── key.pem
   │   └── req.pem
   └── ssl_certs.sh
   ~~~

### Enable RabbitMQ SSL support

1. Stop RabbitMQ

   _NOTE: The `service` command will not work on CentOS 5, the
   sysvinit script must be used, e.g. `sudo /etc/init.d/rabbitmq-server stop`_

   ~~~ shell
   sudo service rabbitmq-server stop
   ~~~

2. Please refer to the [official RabbitMQ documentation for enabling SSL
   support][3] for instructions on installing the certificate authority and SSL
   certificates, and configuring the RabbitMQ `ssl_listeners` and `ssl_options`
   directives.

   _NOTE: the RabbitMQ documentation will direct you to provide the location of
   three certificate files: `cacertfile`, `certfile`, and `keyfile`. These files
   correspond to the `sensu_ca/cacert.pem`, `server/cert.pem`, and
   `server/key.pem` files generated by the Sensu SSL tool (above). We recommend
   copying these files to the RabbitMQ server in a new `/etc/rabbitmq/ssl/`
   directory._

   When complete, your `/etc/rabbitmq/rabbitmq.config` file should contain the
   following configuration block:

   ~~~ shell
   [
     {rabbit, [
        {ssl_listeners, [5671]},
        {ssl_options, [{cacertfile,"/etc/rabbitmq/ssl/cacert.pem"},
                       {certfile,"/etc/rabbitmq/ssl/cert.pem"},
                       {keyfile,"/etc/rabbitmq/ssl/key.pem"},
                       {versions, ['tlsv1.2']},
                       {ciphers,  [{rsa,aes_256_cbc,sha256}]},
                       {verify,verify_peer},
                       {fail_if_no_peer_cert,true}]}
      ]}
   ].
   ~~~

3. Start RabbitMQ

   _NOTE: The `service` command will not work on CentOS 5, the
   sysvinit script must be used, e.g. `sudo /etc/init.d/rabbitmq-server start`_

   ~~~ shell
   sudo service rabbitmq-server start
   ~~~

### Configure Sensu

1. Install the self-signed SSL certificates generated above by copying the
   `client/cert.pem` and `client/key.pem` files to the `/etc/sensu/ssl/`
   directory on all systems running Sensu processes (e.g. the Sensu [server][4],
   [API][5], and [client(s)][6]).

2. Add [`ssl` definition attributes][7] to your Sensu [RabbitMQ
   configuration][8]. Please note the following [standalone configuration
   example][9], a JSON configuration file located at
   `/etc/sensu/conf.d/rabbitmq.json`. Please see the [`ssl` attributes][7]
   section of the RabbitMQ reference documentation for more information.

   ~~~ json
   {
     "host": "127.0.0.1",
     "port": 5671,
     "vhost": "/sensu",
     "user": "sensu",
     "password": "secret",
     "heartbeat": 30,
     "prefetch": 50,
     "ssl": {
       "cert_chain_file": "/etc/sensu/ssl/cert.pem",
       "private_key_file": "/etc/sensu/ssl/key.pem"
     }
   }
   ~~~

   _WARNING: please note that by default, RabbitMQ will listen for SSL
   connections on port `5671` instead of `5672`, so if you are upgrading an
   existing configuration, please ensure that all Sensu services are attempting
   to connect to RabbitMQ on `"port": 5671`._

3. Restart the Sensu services.

## Known limitations

You may have noticed that the instructions above only generated a single client
certificate. Ideally, every SSL connection would use a different certificate,
allowing them to be individually revoked. There is currently no way to tell
RabbitMQ to reject a certificate. If the integrity of a certificate is
compromised, it is common practice to regenerate and redistribute the
certificate authority and certificates. This process is greatly simplified with
the use of configuration management tools. In the future, the Sensu project
hopes to be able to provide a better mechanism for distributing individual
certificates and providing fast/simple revocation facilities.

[1]:  transport.html
[2]:  http://www.rabbitmq.com/ssl.html
[3]:  http://www.rabbitmq.com/ssl.html#enabling-ssl
[4]:  server.html
[5]:  ../api/overview.html
[6]:  clients.html
[7]:  rabbitmq.html#ssl-attributes
[8]:  rabbitmq.html#rabbitmq-definition-specification
[9]:  rabbitmq.html#standalone-configuration
